Just for fun.
Watch this.
OK.
So if I had that all these again right.
The value is nine.
So if I'm not discounting any value at any rate right whatever happens.
So I'm going to go here if I make this zero what happens.
See it's the same thing.
If I didn't have to pay interest on that right if I didn't use a discount rate and that 9 1 A 1 is net
present by today.
Control-C OK.
Now watch this.
Let's pretend that our rate was a lot higher.
Right.
So this is telling us our target price I'll get here second is 22 bucks.
Can I assume orange is what we're looking at 20 bucks is our target price.
Watch what happens if our rate goes from four teen to 20.
Do you think our target price is going to go up or down from 22 bucks.
What do you think.
Right.
If our interest rate is higher here that means that we're riskier company.
So that means higher price should go down a lot and it does.
We went from 22 to 13.
So he controls igo back to 13.
Now watch this.
Let's pretend we're a much better company right.
We're actually just take the beta take the beta and cut in half whatever happens the interest rate here
goes down 8.4 percent where lower risk company.
Right.
And then let me ask you this if our bet is one which means our interest rate is lower here.
Our blended cost capital interest rate what happens to our target price.
What happens to the free cash flows.
Well the value free cash flows can be a lot higher because our interest rate is lower now because our
IT says look the NPV first see what we calculate and then move it into Tartarus.
So NPB before was 5000 something.
This is now six thousand close to 7000 right.
It went up because our cost of capital went down a lot and our tire price went from 20 bucks that weren't
sell them much higher 46 than that on a level.
So let me just and do that's Ccapac make sure all of this is cleared like that.
Great.
So we've got our net present value right and again that's all the future cash flows.
This count using the rate we calculated into today's terms.
Okay.
And then you're like well hold on Chris it doesn't make sense because why are you assuming the company
is valued off of these cash flows as well.
I mean only but what would happen if like the company operated for a long time like for infinity and
then you know the answer there is you're right you're right.
We have to account for the 2021 to 22 all the way up until like for ever.
Right.
So how do we do that.
Well that's called the terminal value.
It's kind of a dumb name terminal value.
All right.
So we have to calculate with the terminal values.
And once we find out what that terminal value is right it's right here right.
Basically in this year you can take all the future cash flows this comes to this term you have the discount
that's that one big number two today.
So let's do it.
Yes.
First try.
OK.
So our long term growth the company in this assumption what's the long term growth of our company.
Well it's 2 percent.
Right.
And I gave that to you and you could say well wait a second because you know the long term growth rate
the companies 2 percent that's pretty low.
I'm sure some companies will grow much faster that.
Well the answer is no they don't and it's not their fault.
They just got too big.
Right.
And big companies just can't grow unless they buy other companies right and use their own cash.
And so.
Or shares whatever it is.
So if you think about the U.S. economy and I mention this before it the U.S. economy is massive it's
25 percent of the revenue of the world and the revenue of the world is just gross domestic product.
So 25 percent of the world's market cap so to speak is or revenue is in the United States and the United
States because it's so big it just can't grow rice can't grow anymore it's huge.
It's like IBM.
IBM doesn't really grow as much in Oracle to grow or ACL it's not growing as much because they're just
big mature companies because they're successful.
They cut back.
And so that's why companies like like Oracle buy a lot of other companies just to grow.
And that's a off topic sorry.
But anyway so our long term growth rate is 2 percent.
Right.
And I've seen numbers that are two and a half three percent whatever and as low as 1 right your personal
company longer term you're look to short it just assume 1 percent and we'll play around these numbers
in a second.
OK.
So our launch and growth rate is that right in our terminal value.
Is this calculation ready.
What you do is this you take our final year 2020 you grow it one more year which is 2 percent growth
and then you divide it by the cost of your capital which is 14 percent minus the growth rate.
Okay let's go up here and take a look see what's covered that that show you taking your final year you're
growing at one more year which means one plus the growth rate which is there.
And then what you're doing is you're dividing it by this interest rate minus the growth rate which is
to the get an answer and that's a terminal value.
Right.
So in the year 2020 or so right here or whatever right around this level here you're terminal value
is all future cash flows right.
Using the long term growth rate and the way the average cost capital right and then you're like well
pull a second you got to discount that as well.
Right.
So we did it we just count it by four years.
We took thirty three point eight which is right here right.
Thirty three point eight.
Count one two three four actually before because to be right here.
OK.
All right.
So that is what she got.
Now watch this.
It's the long term growth rate went from two to three and I'm going to hold down as well or this three
right.
It's now terminal light is 37.
Pretty amazing if it was one.
Whatever happens our value goes down.
Right because our long term growth rate is lower.
And the reason I want to pull this up here is because this is the sense to me and also I'll get to in
a second but I want to show you have got growth here and we average cost capital.
What happens if I increase or decrease our discount rate.
And what happens if I increase or decrease or growth what happens there.
Right.
And you'll see in a second.
OK.
Now what is the value of our company based on all that research.
Well we just took this off here.
Sorry.
So the value is going to be the target equity value minus debt right and the equity value.
Is that right.
Plus Net Present Value right.
That's these years here.
That's the MPB we calculate.
And then right here in infinit has Tourmalet.
Right.
So those two values.
Boom boom.
That's our Yes count minus that which is the minimum.
It's like 10 bucks and that's the target value of the company.
Right.
And the number shares is there.
Right got it.
And there what happens if we have only 100 shares much higher.
So that's why I mean play around these numbers a lot.
OK.
I really want you to understand finance and not memorize it.
It makes it so much more fun to tap.
You'll find most your competitors will just memorize this stuff they don't really understand it.
And I wrote here what's the target price per share assuming we have cost cut costs capital of 11 percent
.
I should actually see eleven point three sorry three percent.
In long term growth rate of 3 right and the math here is it looks complicated.
Right.
I know it's complicated right.
It's basically just everything we've done right.
It basically says well the value of the company is going to be the net present value right of those
cash flows Plus the terminal value discounted as well.
Right.
Minus the debt we have right.
Divided by the number of shares.
And if you didn't divide by the number of shares what happens is it's going to give you the target market
cap of the company.
Right.
If that's the target market cap of the company market cap memories just shares times the times the price
happens if go here and divide it by 1 1 6 5 is the number of shares wups miscue.
So I go here divide by 1 1 6 5 thirty three point four seven right there.
Three three fourths of the.
Got it.
And so remember here with our terminal value right.
You divide it up by the discount rate.
Modest long term growth rate and you might say hello.
And Chris.
What if the discount rate is less than the growth rate.
It never will be.
It never will be because in the long run companies can't grow more in a couple percents right now.
OK so if we go here we play these numbers you like Chris.
I disagree.
Going up 4 percent lower to type that up.
Look what happens.
All these numbers change right.
It can.
And then watch this.
If you're like OK Chris I get it you've got all these levels you're deducting kind of 300 basis points
here from each one of us.
When they say three basis points I mean three percent a basis point is point 0 1 of a percent 100 basis
points is just one percent.
Just nerd finals talk.
OK.
You play these numbers but this is awesome so portfolio managers love this stuff.
Right.
Because you know a lot of times I'll disagree with you when you do a model with a few with them.
And it looks like we'll see.
Chris I don't agree with your your rate and you're like ok that's cool.
Look here's a sense saving us a bunch of other rates.
They'll say Well I'll agree with your growth rates.
Long term I mean up the discount rate you like.
OK.
So we meant well look at this here either different growth rates.
And so what I always do is I love to look at this table because there's three different cases.
Remember Goldilocks and three bears right.
There is just one suit to suit cool.
This was just right.
So I usually take this is the ace case target price.
And that's the bullish target price and that's the bearish target price.
OK.